packages/web/src/content/docs/server.mdx, before:

---
title: Server
description: Interact with opencode server over HTTP.
---

import config from "../../../config.mjs"
export const typesUrl = `${config.github}/blob/dev/packages/sdk/js/src/gen/types.gen.ts`

The `opencode serve` command runs a headless HTTP server that exposes an OpenAPI endpoint that an opencode client can use.

---

### Usage

```bash
opencode serve [--port <number>] [--hostname <string>] [--cors <origin>]
```

#### Options

| Flag         | Description                         | Default     |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `--port`     | Port to listen on                   | `4096`      |
| `--hostname` | Hostname to listen on               | `127.0.0.1` |
| `--mdns`     | Enable mDNS discovery               | `false`     |
| `--cors`     | Additional browser origins to allow | `[]`        |

`--cors` can be passed multiple times:

```bash
opencode serve --cors http://localhost:5173 --cors https://app.example.com
```

---

### How it works

When you run `opencode` it starts a TUI and a server. Where the TUI is the
client that talks to the server. The server exposes an OpenAPI 3.1 spec
endpoint. This endpoint is also used to generate an [SDK](/docs/sdk).

:::tip
Use the opencode server to interact with opencode programmatically.
:::

This architecture lets opencode support multiple clients and allows you to interact with opencode programmatically.

You can run `opencode serve` to start a standalone server. If you have the
opencode TUI running, `opencode serve` will start a new server.

---

#### Connect to an existing server

When you start the TUI it randomly assigns a port and hostname. You can instead pass in the `--hostname` and `--port` [flags](/docs/cli). Then use this to connect to its server.

The [`/tui`](#tui) endpoint can be used to drive the TUI through the server. For example, you can prefill or run a prompt. This setup is used by the OpenCode [IDE](/docs/ide) plugins.

---

## Spec

The server publishes an OpenAPI 3.1 spec that can be viewed at:

```
http://<hostname>:<port>/doc
```

For example, `http://localhost:4096/doc`. Use the spec to generate clients or inspect request and response types. Or view it in a Swagger explorer.

---

## APIs

The opencode server exposes the following APIs.

---

### Global

| Method | Path             | Description                    | Response                             |
| ------ | ---------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/global/health` | Get server health and version  | `{ healthy: true, version: string }` |
| `GET`  | `/global/event`  | Get global events (SSE stream) | Event stream                         |

---

### Project

| Method | Path               | Description             | Response                                      |
| ------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/project`         | List all projects       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Project[]</code></a> |
| `GET`  | `/project/current` | Get the current project | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Project</code></a>   |

---

### Path & VCS

| Method | Path    | Description                          | Response                                    |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/path` | Get the current path                 | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Path</code></a>    |
| `GET`  | `/vcs`  | Get VCS info for the current project | <a href={typesUrl}><code>VcsInfo</code></a> |

---

### Instance

| Method | Path                | Description                  | Response  |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- |
| `POST` | `/instance/dispose` | Dispose the current instance | `boolean` |

---

### Config

| Method  | Path                | Description                       | Response                                                                                 |
| ------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`   | `/config`           | Get config info                   | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Config</code></a>                                               |
| `PATCH` | `/config`           | Update config                     | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Config</code></a>                                               |
| `GET`   | `/config/providers` | List providers and default models | `{ providers: `<a href={typesUrl}>Provider[]</a>`, default: { [key: string]: string } }` |

---

### Provider

| Method | Path                             | Description                          | Response                                                                            |
| ------ | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/provider`                      | List all providers                   | `{ all: `<a href={typesUrl}>Provider[]</a>`, default: {...}, connected: string[] }` |
| `GET`  | `/provider/auth`                 | Get provider authentication methods  | `{ [providerID: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>ProviderAuthMethod[]</a>` }`           |
| `POST` | `/provider/{id}/oauth/authorize` | Authorize a provider using OAuth     | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ProviderAuthAuthorization</code></a>                       |
| `POST` | `/provider/{id}/oauth/callback`  | Handle OAuth callback for a provider | `boolean`                                                                           |

---

### Sessions

| Method   | Path                                     | Description                           | Notes                                                                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`    | `/session`                               | List all sessions                     | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session[]</code></a>                              |
| `POST`   | `/session`                               | Create a new session                  | body: `{ parentID?, title? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a> |
| `GET`    | `/session/status`                        | Get session status for all sessions   | Returns `{ [sessionID: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>SessionStatus</a>` }`          |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id`                           | Get session details                   | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `DELETE` | `/session/:id`                           | Delete a session and all its data     | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `PATCH`  | `/session/:id`                           | Update session properties             | body: `{ title? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>            |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/children`                  | Get a session's child sessions        | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session[]</code></a>                              |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/todo`                      | Get the todo list for a session       | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Todo[]</code></a>                                 |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/init`                      | Analyze app and create `AGENTS.md`    | body: `{ messageID, providerID, modelID }`, returns `boolean`                      |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/fork`                      | Fork an existing session at a message | body: `{ messageID? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>        |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/abort`                     | Abort a running session               | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/share`                     | Share a session                       | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `DELETE` | `/session/:id/share`                     | Unshare a session                     | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/diff`                      | Get the diff for this session         | query: `messageID?`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileDiff[]</code></a>        |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/summarize`                 | Summarize the session                 | body: `{ providerID, modelID }`, returns `boolean`                                 |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/revert`                    | Revert a message                      | body: `{ messageID, partID? }`, returns `boolean`                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/unrevert`                  | Restore all reverted messages         | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/permissions/:permissionID` | Respond to a permission request       | body: `{ response, remember? }`, returns `boolean`                                 |

---

### Messages

| Method | Path                              | Description                             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------ | --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/session/:id/message`            | List messages in a session              | query: `limit?`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}[]`                                                        |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/message`            | Send a message and wait for response    | body: `{ messageID?, model?, agent?, noReply?, system?, tools?, parts }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}` |
| `GET`  | `/session/:id/message/:messageID` | Get message details                     | Returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`                                                                           |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/prompt_async`       | Send a message asynchronously (no wait) | body: same as `/session/:id/message`, returns `204 No Content`                                                                                                        |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/command`            | Execute a slash command                 | body: `{ messageID?, agent?, model?, command, arguments }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`               |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/shell`              | Run a shell command                     | body: `{ agent, model?, command }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`                                       |

---

### Commands

| Method | Path       | Description       | Response                                      |
| ------ | ---------- | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/command` | List all commands | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Command[]</code></a> |

---

### Files

| Method | Path                     | Description                        | Response                                                                                    |
| ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/find?pattern=<pat>`    | Search for text in files           | Array of match objects with `path`, `lines`, `line_number`, `absolute_offset`, `submatches` |
| `GET`  | `/find/file?query=<q>`   | Find files and directories by name | `string[]` (paths)                                                                          |
| `GET`  | `/find/symbol?query=<q>` | Find workspace symbols             | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Symbol[]</code></a>                                                |
| `GET`  | `/file?path=<path>`      | List files and directories         | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileNode[]</code></a>                                              |
| `GET`  | `/file/content?path=<p>` | Read a file                        | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileContent</code></a>                                             |
| `GET`  | `/file/status`           | Get status for tracked files       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>File[]</code></a>                                                  |

#### `/find/file` query parameters

- `query` (required) — search string (fuzzy match)
- `type` (optional) — limit results to `"file"` or `"directory"`
- `directory` (optional) — override the project root for the search
- `limit` (optional) — max results (1–200)
- `dirs` (optional) — legacy flag (`"false"` returns only files)

---

### Tools (Experimental)

| Method | Path                                        | Description                              | Response                                     |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/experimental/tool/ids`                    | List all tool IDs                        | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ToolIDs</code></a>  |
| `GET`  | `/experimental/tool?provider=<p>&model=<m>` | List tools with JSON schemas for a model | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ToolList</code></a> |

---

### LSP, Formatters & MCP

| Method | Path         | Description                | Response                                                 |
| ------ | ------------ | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/lsp`       | Get LSP server status      | <a href={typesUrl}><code>LSPStatus[]</code></a>          |
| `GET`  | `/formatter` | Get formatter status       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FormatterStatus[]</code></a>    |
| `GET`  | `/mcp`       | Get MCP server status      | `{ [name: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>MCPStatus</a>` }` |
| `POST` | `/mcp`       | Add MCP server dynamically | body: `{ name, config }`, returns MCP status object      |

---

### Agents

| Method | Path     | Description               | Response                                    |
| ------ | -------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/agent` | List all available agents | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Agent[]</code></a> |

---

### Logging

| Method | Path   | Description                                                  | Response  |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| `POST` | `/log` | Write log entry. Body: `{ service, level, message, extra? }` | `boolean` |

---

### TUI

| Method | Path                    | Description                                 | Response               |
| ------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `POST` | `/tui/append-prompt`    | Append text to the prompt                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-help`        | Open the help dialog                        | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-sessions`    | Open the session selector                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-themes`      | Open the theme selector                     | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-models`      | Open the model selector                     | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/submit-prompt`    | Submit the current prompt                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/clear-prompt`     | Clear the prompt                            | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/execute-command`  | Execute a command (`{ command }`)           | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/show-toast`       | Show toast (`{ title?, message, variant }`) | `boolean`              |
| `GET`  | `/tui/control/next`     | Wait for the next control request           | Control request object |
| `POST` | `/tui/control/response` | Respond to a control request (`{ body }`)   | `boolean`              |

---

### Auth

| Method | Path        | Description                                                     | Response  |
| ------ | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `PUT`  | `/auth/:id` | Set authentication credentials. Body must match provider schema | `boolean` |

---

### Events

| Method | Path     | Description                                                                   | Response                  |
| ------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/event` | Server-sent events stream. First event is `server.connected`, then bus events | Server-sent events stream |

---

### Docs

| Method | Path   | Description               | Response                    |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/doc` | OpenAPI 3.1 specification | HTML page with OpenAPI spec |

Commit message:

core: fix HTTP exception handling order to prevent NamedError from masking HTTP exceptions
docs: add OPENCODE_PASSWORD environment variable documentation for basic auth

packages/web/src/content/docs/server.mdx, after:

---
title: Server
description: Interact with opencode server over HTTP.
---

import config from "../../../config.mjs"
export const typesUrl = `${config.github}/blob/dev/packages/sdk/js/src/gen/types.gen.ts`

The `opencode serve` command runs a headless HTTP server that exposes an OpenAPI endpoint that an opencode client can use.

---

### Usage

```bash
opencode serve [--port <number>] [--hostname <string>] [--cors <origin>]
```

#### Options

| Flag         | Description                         | Default     |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------- | ----------- |
| `--port`     | Port to listen on                   | `4096`      |
| `--hostname` | Hostname to listen on               | `127.0.0.1` |
| `--mdns`     | Enable mDNS discovery               | `false`     |
| `--cors`     | Additional browser origins to allow | `[]`        |

`--cors` can be passed multiple times:

```bash
opencode serve --cors http://localhost:5173 --cors https://app.example.com
```

---

### Authentication

Set `OPENCODE_PASSWORD` to protect the server with HTTP basic auth. The username is always `opencode`, and the password is the value of `OPENCODE_PASSWORD`. This applies to both `opencode serve` and `opencode web`.

```bash
OPENCODE_PASSWORD=your-password opencode serve
```

---

### How it works

When you run `opencode` it starts a TUI and a server. Where the TUI is the
client that talks to the server. The server exposes an OpenAPI 3.1 spec
endpoint. This endpoint is also used to generate an [SDK](/docs/sdk).

:::tip
Use the opencode server to interact with opencode programmatically.
:::

This architecture lets opencode support multiple clients and allows you to interact with opencode programmatically.

You can run `opencode serve` to start a standalone server. If you have the
opencode TUI running, `opencode serve` will start a new server.

---

#### Connect to an existing server

When you start the TUI it randomly assigns a port and hostname. You can instead pass in the `--hostname` and `--port` [flags](/docs/cli). Then use this to connect to its server.

The [`/tui`](#tui) endpoint can be used to drive the TUI through the server. For example, you can prefill or run a prompt. This setup is used by the OpenCode [IDE](/docs/ide) plugins.

---

## Spec

The server publishes an OpenAPI 3.1 spec that can be viewed at:

```
http://<hostname>:<port>/doc
```

For example, `http://localhost:4096/doc`. Use the spec to generate clients or inspect request and response types. Or view it in a Swagger explorer.

---

## APIs

The opencode server exposes the following APIs.

---

### Global

| Method | Path             | Description                    | Response                             |
| ------ | ---------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/global/health` | Get server health and version  | `{ healthy: true, version: string }` |
| `GET`  | `/global/event`  | Get global events (SSE stream) | Event stream                         |

---

### Project

| Method | Path               | Description             | Response                                      |
| ------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/project`         | List all projects       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Project[]</code></a> |
| `GET`  | `/project/current` | Get the current project | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Project</code></a>   |

---

### Path & VCS

| Method | Path    | Description                          | Response                                    |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/path` | Get the current path                 | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Path</code></a>    |
| `GET`  | `/vcs`  | Get VCS info for the current project | <a href={typesUrl}><code>VcsInfo</code></a> |

---

### Instance

| Method | Path                | Description                  | Response  |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- |
| `POST` | `/instance/dispose` | Dispose the current instance | `boolean` |

---

### Config

| Method  | Path                | Description                       | Response                                                                                 |
| ------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`   | `/config`           | Get config info                   | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Config</code></a>                                               |
| `PATCH` | `/config`           | Update config                     | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Config</code></a>                                               |
| `GET`   | `/config/providers` | List providers and default models | `{ providers: `<a href={typesUrl}>Provider[]</a>`, default: { [key: string]: string } }` |

---

### Provider

| Method | Path                             | Description                          | Response                                                                            |
| ------ | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/provider`                      | List all providers                   | `{ all: `<a href={typesUrl}>Provider[]</a>`, default: {...}, connected: string[] }` |
| `GET`  | `/provider/auth`                 | Get provider authentication methods  | `{ [providerID: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>ProviderAuthMethod[]</a>` }`           |
| `POST` | `/provider/{id}/oauth/authorize` | Authorize a provider using OAuth     | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ProviderAuthAuthorization</code></a>                       |
| `POST` | `/provider/{id}/oauth/callback`  | Handle OAuth callback for a provider | `boolean`                                                                           |

---

### Sessions

| Method   | Path                                     | Description                           | Notes                                                                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`    | `/session`                               | List all sessions                     | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session[]</code></a>                              |
| `POST`   | `/session`                               | Create a new session                  | body: `{ parentID?, title? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a> |
| `GET`    | `/session/status`                        | Get session status for all sessions   | Returns `{ [sessionID: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>SessionStatus</a>` }`          |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id`                           | Get session details                   | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `DELETE` | `/session/:id`                           | Delete a session and all its data     | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `PATCH`  | `/session/:id`                           | Update session properties             | body: `{ title? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>            |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/children`                  | Get a session's child sessions        | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session[]</code></a>                              |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/todo`                      | Get the todo list for a session       | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Todo[]</code></a>                                 |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/init`                      | Analyze app and create `AGENTS.md`    | body: `{ messageID, providerID, modelID }`, returns `boolean`                      |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/fork`                      | Fork an existing session at a message | body: `{ messageID? }`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>        |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/abort`                     | Abort a running session               | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/share`                     | Share a session                       | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `DELETE` | `/session/:id/share`                     | Unshare a session                     | Returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>Session</code></a>                                |
| `GET`    | `/session/:id/diff`                      | Get the diff for this session         | query: `messageID?`, returns <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileDiff[]</code></a>        |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/summarize`                 | Summarize the session                 | body: `{ providerID, modelID }`, returns `boolean`                                 |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/revert`                    | Revert a message                      | body: `{ messageID, partID? }`, returns `boolean`                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/unrevert`                  | Restore all reverted messages         | Returns `boolean`                                                                  |
| `POST`   | `/session/:id/permissions/:permissionID` | Respond to a permission request       | body: `{ response, remember? }`, returns `boolean`                                 |

---

### Messages

| Method | Path                              | Description                             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------ | --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/session/:id/message`            | List messages in a session              | query: `limit?`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}[]`                                                        |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/message`            | Send a message and wait for response    | body: `{ messageID?, model?, agent?, noReply?, system?, tools?, parts }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}` |
| `GET`  | `/session/:id/message/:messageID` | Get message details                     | Returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`                                                                           |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/prompt_async`       | Send a message asynchronously (no wait) | body: same as `/session/:id/message`, returns `204 No Content`                                                                                                        |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/command`            | Execute a slash command                 | body: `{ messageID?, agent?, model?, command, arguments }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`               |
| `POST` | `/session/:id/shell`              | Run a shell command                     | body: `{ agent, model?, command }`, returns `{ info: `<a href={typesUrl}>Message</a>`, parts: `<a href={typesUrl}>Part[]</a>`}`                                       |

---

### Commands

| Method | Path       | Description       | Response                                      |
| ------ | ---------- | ----------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/command` | List all commands | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Command[]</code></a> |

---

### Files

| Method | Path                     | Description                        | Response                                                                                    |
| ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/find?pattern=<pat>`    | Search for text in files           | Array of match objects with `path`, `lines`, `line_number`, `absolute_offset`, `submatches` |
| `GET`  | `/find/file?query=<q>`   | Find files and directories by name | `string[]` (paths)                                                                          |
| `GET`  | `/find/symbol?query=<q>` | Find workspace symbols             | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Symbol[]</code></a>                                                |
| `GET`  | `/file?path=<path>`      | List files and directories         | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileNode[]</code></a>                                              |
| `GET`  | `/file/content?path=<p>` | Read a file                        | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FileContent</code></a>                                             |
| `GET`  | `/file/status`           | Get status for tracked files       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>File[]</code></a>                                                  |

#### `/find/file` query parameters

- `query` (required) — search string (fuzzy match)
- `type` (optional) — limit results to `"file"` or `"directory"`
- `directory` (optional) — override the project root for the search
- `limit` (optional) — max results (1–200)
- `dirs` (optional) — legacy flag (`"false"` returns only files)

---

### Tools (Experimental)

| Method | Path                                        | Description                              | Response                                     |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/experimental/tool/ids`                    | List all tool IDs                        | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ToolIDs</code></a>  |
| `GET`  | `/experimental/tool?provider=<p>&model=<m>` | List tools with JSON schemas for a model | <a href={typesUrl}><code>ToolList</code></a> |

---

### LSP, Formatters & MCP

| Method | Path         | Description                | Response                                                 |
| ------ | ------------ | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/lsp`       | Get LSP server status      | <a href={typesUrl}><code>LSPStatus[]</code></a>          |
| `GET`  | `/formatter` | Get formatter status       | <a href={typesUrl}><code>FormatterStatus[]</code></a>    |
| `GET`  | `/mcp`       | Get MCP server status      | `{ [name: string]: `<a href={typesUrl}>MCPStatus</a>` }` |
| `POST` | `/mcp`       | Add MCP server dynamically | body: `{ name, config }`, returns MCP status object      |

---

### Agents

| Method | Path     | Description               | Response                                    |
| ------ | -------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/agent` | List all available agents | <a href={typesUrl}><code>Agent[]</code></a> |

---

### Logging

| Method | Path   | Description                                                  | Response  |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| `POST` | `/log` | Write log entry. Body: `{ service, level, message, extra? }` | `boolean` |

---

### TUI

| Method | Path                    | Description                                 | Response               |
| ------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `POST` | `/tui/append-prompt`    | Append text to the prompt                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-help`        | Open the help dialog                        | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-sessions`    | Open the session selector                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-themes`      | Open the theme selector                     | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/open-models`      | Open the model selector                     | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/submit-prompt`    | Submit the current prompt                   | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/clear-prompt`     | Clear the prompt                            | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/execute-command`  | Execute a command (`{ command }`)           | `boolean`              |
| `POST` | `/tui/show-toast`       | Show toast (`{ title?, message, variant }`) | `boolean`              |
| `GET`  | `/tui/control/next`     | Wait for the next control request           | Control request object |
| `POST` | `/tui/control/response` | Respond to a control request (`{ body }`)   | `boolean`              |

---

### Auth

| Method | Path        | Description                                                     | Response  |
| ------ | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `PUT`  | `/auth/:id` | Set authentication credentials. Body must match provider schema | `boolean` |

---

### Events

| Method | Path     | Description                                                                   | Response                  |
| ------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/event` | Server-sent events stream. First event is `server.connected`, then bus events | Server-sent events stream |

---

### Docs

| Method | Path   | Description               | Response                    |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/doc` | OpenAPI 3.1 specification | HTML page with OpenAPI spec |
